README.md, before:

# 🌱 AgroGen — AI-Powered Multi-Agent Agriculture Assistant

AgroGen is an AI-powered multi-agent system designed to empower farmers with insights on crop health, weather conditions, market prices, and actionable recommendations. It uses state-of-the-art AI models and government data sources to provide reliable, real-time agricultural intelligence.

---

# 📘 1. Introduction

**AgroGen** combines AI vision, weather intelligence, market analytics, and knowledge reasoning into a unified system to help farmers make informed decisions.

### **Inputs**
- 📸 Crop image  
- 📍 Farmer’s location  
- 🌿 Crop name  

### **Outputs**
- 🦠 Disease detection  
- ☁️ Weather insights  
- 💹 Live mandi (market) prices  
- 🧠 Farmer-friendly recommendations  

### **Multi-Agent Architecture**
- **Vision Agent** → Uses *Gemini Vision* for crop disease identification  
- **Weather Agent** → Fetches weather data via *OpenWeatherMap*  
- **Market Agent** → Retrieves mandi prices from *data.gov.in*  
- **Knowledge Agent** → Generates final recommendations using *Gemini Pro*  
- **Supervisor Agent** → Coordinates all agents in parallel and merges results  

---

# ⭐ 2. Features

- 🤖 Gemini Vision crop disease detection  
- ☁️ Real-time weather data  
- 💹 Live government mandi prices (data.gov.in)  
- ⚡ Parallel multi-agent execution  
- 📦 JSON-structured unified response  
- 🧱 Modular, scalable architecture  
- 📜 Optional memory & logging extensions  
- 🔌 Easy API integration  

---

# 🏗 3. System Architecture

AgroGen uses a **parallel, multi-agent architecture** orchestrated by a Supervisor Agent:

### 🧩 **Supervisor Agent**
- Executes all agents concurrently  
- Merges outputs into a final structured response  

### 👁️ **Vision Agent (Gemini 2.0 Flash)**
- Analyzes crop images  
- Detects diseases, pests, or nutritional issues  

### ☁️ **Weather Agent (OpenWeatherMap)**
- Retrieves weather forecasts  
- Temperature, humidity, rainfall, wind  

### 💹 **Market Agent (data.gov.in)**
- Retrieves mandi prices for crops  
- Uses public government datasets  

### 📘 **Knowledge Agent (Gemini 2.0 flash)**
- Synthesizes insights  
- Generates actionable farming recommendations  

---

# 🔧 4. Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools and accounts are ready:

| Dependency | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| **Python 3.13** | Project runtime |
| **Google Cloud Account** | Required for Gemini API |
| **Vertex AI API Enabled** | Needed for model access |
| **OpenWeatherMap API Key** | Weather data |
| **Data.gov.in API Key** | Mandi price data |

---

# 🔑 5. How to Get Your Google Cloud `key.json`

Follow this step-by-step guide:

1. Open **Google Cloud Console**  
2. Go to **IAM & Admin → Service Accounts**  
3. Click **Create Service Account**  
4. Enter a name → Click **Create**  
5. Assign role: **Vertex AI User**  
6. Click **Continue → Done**  
7. Select the service account  
8. Go to **Keys** tab → **Add Key → Create New Key**  
9. Choose **JSON** → Download it  
10. Rename file to **`key.json`**  
11. Move it to your project root folder  
12. Set environment variable:

```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="key.json"

Commit message:

Revise README with detailed system information
Updated the README to include additional information about the AgroGen system, its features, architecture, prerequisites, and instructions for obtaining the Google Cloud key.

README.md, after:

# (Get Your own key.json(As it not included in repo) file from the google cloud)
# 🌱 AgroGen — AI-Powered Multi-Agent Agriculture Assistant

AgroGen is an AI-powered multi-agent system designed to empower farmers with insights on crop health, weather conditions, market prices, and actionable recommendations. It uses state-of-the-art AI models and government data sources to provide reliable, real-time agricultural intelligence.

---

# 📘 1. Introduction

**AgroGen** combines AI vision, weather intelligence, market analytics, and knowledge reasoning into a unified system to help farmers make informed decisions.

### **Inputs**
- 📸 Crop image  
- 📍 Farmer’s location  
- 🌿 Crop name  

### **Outputs**
- 🦠 Disease detection  
- ☁️ Weather insights  
- 💹 Live mandi (market) prices  
- 🧠 Farmer-friendly recommendations  

### **Multi-Agent Architecture**
- **Vision Agent** → Uses *Gemini Vision* for crop disease identification  
- **Weather Agent** → Fetches weather data via *OpenWeatherMap*  
- **Market Agent** → Retrieves mandi prices from *data.gov.in*  
- **Knowledge Agent** → Generates final recommendations using *Gemini Pro*  
- **Supervisor Agent** → Coordinates all agents in parallel and merges results  

---

# ⭐ 2. Features

- 🤖 Gemini Vision crop disease detection  
- ☁️ Real-time weather data  
- 💹 Live government mandi prices (data.gov.in)  
- ⚡ Parallel multi-agent execution  
- 📦 JSON-structured unified response  
- 🧱 Modular, scalable architecture  
- 📜 Optional memory & logging extensions  
- 🔌 Easy API integration  

---

# 🏗 3. System Architecture

AgroGen uses a **parallel, multi-agent architecture** orchestrated by a Supervisor Agent:

### 🧩 **Supervisor Agent**
- Executes all agents concurrently  
- Merges outputs into a final structured response  

### 👁️ **Vision Agent (Gemini 2.0 Flash)**
- Analyzes crop images  
- Detects diseases, pests, or nutritional issues  

### ☁️ **Weather Agent (OpenWeatherMap)**
- Retrieves weather forecasts  
- Temperature, humidity, rainfall, wind  

### 💹 **Market Agent (data.gov.in)**
- Retrieves mandi prices for crops  
- Uses public government datasets  

### 📘 **Knowledge Agent (Gemini 2.0 flash)**
- Synthesizes insights  
- Generates actionable farming recommendations  

---

# 🔧 4. Prerequisites

Ensure the following tools and accounts are ready:

| Dependency | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| **Python 3.13** | Project runtime |
| **Google Cloud Account** | Required for Gemini API |
| **Vertex AI API Enabled** | Needed for model access |
| **OpenWeatherMap API Key** | Weather data |
| **Data.gov.in API Key** | Mandi price data |

---

# 🔑 5. How to Get Your Google Cloud `key.json`

Follow this step-by-step guide:

1. Open **Google Cloud Console**  
2. Go to **IAM & Admin → Service Accounts**  
3. Click **Create Service Account**  
4. Enter a name → Click **Create**  
5. Assign role: **Vertex AI User**  
6. Click **Continue → Done**  
7. Select the service account  
8. Go to **Keys** tab → **Add Key → Create New Key**  
9. Choose **JSON** → Download it  
10. Rename file to **`key.json`**  
11. Move it to your project root folder  
12. Set environment variable:

```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="key.json"
